README.rst, before:

Django reCAPTCHA
================
**Django reCAPTCHA form field/widget integration app.**

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/django-recaptcha.svg?branch=develop
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/django-recaptcha

.. contents:: Contents
    :depth: 5

django-recaptcha uses a modified version of the `Python reCAPTCHA client <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/recaptcha-client>`_ which is included in the package as ``client.py``.


Installation
------------

#. Install or add ``django-recaptcha`` to your Python path.

#. Add ``captcha`` to your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` setting.

#. Add a ``RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY`` setting to the project's ``settings.py`` file. This is your public API key as provided by reCAPTCHA, i.e.::

    RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY = '76wtgdfsjhsydt7r5FFGFhgsdfytd656sad75fgh'

   This can be seperately specified at runtime by passing a ``public_key`` parameter when constructing the ``ReCaptchaField``, see field usage below.

#. Add a ``RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY`` setting to the project's ``settings.py`` file. This is your private API key as provided by reCAPTCHA, i.e.::

    RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY = '98dfg6df7g56df6gdfgdfg65JHJH656565GFGFGs'

   This can be seperately specified at runtime by passing a ``private_key`` parameter when constructing the ``ReCaptchaField``, see field usage below.

#. Optionally add a ``RECAPTCHA_USE_SSL`` setting to the project's ``settings.py`` file. This causes reCAPTCHA validation submits to be made over SSL, i.e.::

    RECAPTCHA_USE_SSL = True

   If you don't add this setting the default behaviour is to **NOT** use SSL.
   This can be seperately specified at runtime by passing a ``use_ssl`` parameter when constructing the ``ReCaptchaField``, see field usage below.

Usage
-----

Field
~~~~~
The quickest way to add reCAPTHCA to a form is to use the included ``ReCaptchaField`` field type. A ``ReCaptcha`` widget will be rendered with the field validating itself without any further action required from you. For example::

    from django import forms
    from captcha.fields import ReCaptchaField

    class FormWithCaptcha(forms.Form):
        captcha = ReCaptchaField()

To allow for runtime specification of keys and SSL usage you can optionally pass ``private_key``, ``public_key`` or ``use_ssl`` parameters to the constructor, i.e.::

    captcha = ReCaptchaField(
        public_key='76wtgdfsjhsydt7r5FFGFhgsdfytd656sad75fgh',
        private_key='98dfg6df7g56df6gdfgdfg65JHJH656565GFGFGs',
        use_ssl=True
    )

If specified these parameters will be used instead of your reCAPCTHA project settings.

The reCAPTCHA widget supports several `Javascript options variables <https://code.google.com/apis/recaptcha/docs/customization.html>`_ customizing the behaviour of the widget, such as ``theme`` and ``lang``. You can forward these options to the widget by passing an ``attr`` parameter containing a dictionary of options to ``ReCaptchaField``, i.e.::

    captcha = ReCaptchaField(attrs={'theme' : 'clean'})

The captcha client takes the key/value pairs and writes out the RecaptchaOptions value in JavaScript.


Unit Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~

django-recaptcha introduces an environmental variable `RECAPTCHA_TESTING` which
helps facilitate tests. The environmental variable should be set to `"True"`,
and cleared, using the `setUp()` and `tearDown()` methods in your test classes.

Setting `RECAPTCHA_TESTING` to `True` causes django-recaptcha to accept
`"PASSED"` as the `recaptcha_response_field` value.

Example:::

    import os
    os.environ['RECAPTCHA_TESTING'] = 'True'

    form_params = {'recaptcha_response_field': 'PASSED'}
    form = RegistrationForm(form_params) # assuming only one ReCaptchaField
    form.is_valid() # True

    os.environ['RECAPTCHA_TESTING'] = 'False'
    form.is_valid() # False

Passing any other values will cause django-recaptcha to continue normal processing
and return a form error.

Check `tests.py` for a full example.


AJAX
~~~~~

To make Recapcha work in ajax-loaded forms:

#. import recaptcha_ajax.js on your page (not in the loaded template):

    <script type="text/javascript" src="http://www.google.com/recaptcha/api/js/recaptcha_ajax.js"></script>

#. settings.py

    CAPTCHA_AJAX = True


Credits
-------
Inspired Marco Fucci's blogpost titled `Integrating reCAPTCHA with Django <http://www.marcofucci.com/tumblelog/26/jul/2009/integrating-recaptcha-with-django>`_


``client.py`` taken from `recaptcha-client <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/recaptcha-client>`_ licenced MIT/X11 by Mike Crawford.

reCAPTCHA copyright 2012 Google.

.. |travis| image:: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/device-recaptcha.png?branch=develop
.. _travis: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/device-recaptcha

Commit message:

README.rst: Syntax highlight Python

README.rst, after:

Django reCAPTCHA
================
**Django reCAPTCHA form field/widget integration app.**

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/django-recaptcha.svg?branch=develop
    :target: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/django-recaptcha

.. contents:: Contents
    :depth: 5

django-recaptcha uses a modified version of the `Python reCAPTCHA client <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/recaptcha-client>`_ which is included in the package as ``client.py``.


Installation
------------

#. Install or add ``django-recaptcha`` to your Python path.

#. Add ``captcha`` to your ``INSTALLED_APPS`` setting.

#. Add a ``RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY`` setting to the project's ``settings.py`` file. This is your public API key as provided by reCAPTCHA, i.e.::

    RECAPTCHA_PUBLIC_KEY = '76wtgdfsjhsydt7r5FFGFhgsdfytd656sad75fgh'

   This can be seperately specified at runtime by passing a ``public_key`` parameter when constructing the ``ReCaptchaField``, see field usage below.

#. Add a ``RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY`` setting to the project's ``settings.py`` file. This is your private API key as provided by reCAPTCHA, i.e.::

    RECAPTCHA_PRIVATE_KEY = '98dfg6df7g56df6gdfgdfg65JHJH656565GFGFGs'

   This can be seperately specified at runtime by passing a ``private_key`` parameter when constructing the ``ReCaptchaField``, see field usage below.

#. Optionally add a ``RECAPTCHA_USE_SSL`` setting to the project's ``settings.py`` file. This causes reCAPTCHA validation submits to be made over SSL, i.e.::

    RECAPTCHA_USE_SSL = True

   If you don't add this setting the default behaviour is to **NOT** use SSL.
   This can be seperately specified at runtime by passing a ``use_ssl`` parameter when constructing the ``ReCaptchaField``, see field usage below.

Usage
-----

Field
~~~~~
The quickest way to add reCAPTHCA to a form is to use the included ``ReCaptchaField`` field type. A ``ReCaptcha`` widget will be rendered with the field validating itself without any further action required from you. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    from django import forms
    from captcha.fields import ReCaptchaField

    class FormWithCaptcha(forms.Form):
        captcha = ReCaptchaField()

To allow for runtime specification of keys and SSL usage you can optionally pass ``private_key``, ``public_key`` or ``use_ssl`` parameters to the constructor, i.e.:

.. code-block:: python

    captcha = ReCaptchaField(
        public_key='76wtgdfsjhsydt7r5FFGFhgsdfytd656sad75fgh',
        private_key='98dfg6df7g56df6gdfgdfg65JHJH656565GFGFGs',
        use_ssl=True
    )

If specified these parameters will be used instead of your reCAPCTHA project settings.

The reCAPTCHA widget supports several `Javascript options variables <https://code.google.com/apis/recaptcha/docs/customization.html>`_ customizing the behaviour of the widget, such as ``theme`` and ``lang``. You can forward these options to the widget by passing an ``attr`` parameter containing a dictionary of options to ``ReCaptchaField``, i.e.:

.. code-block:: python

    captcha = ReCaptchaField(attrs={'theme' : 'clean'})

The captcha client takes the key/value pairs and writes out the RecaptchaOptions value in JavaScript.


Unit Testing
~~~~~~~~~~~~

django-recaptcha introduces an environmental variable `RECAPTCHA_TESTING` which
helps facilitate tests. The environmental variable should be set to `"True"`,
and cleared, using the `setUp()` and `tearDown()` methods in your test classes.

Setting `RECAPTCHA_TESTING` to `True` causes django-recaptcha to accept
`"PASSED"` as the `recaptcha_response_field` value.

Example:

.. code-block:: python

    import os
    os.environ['RECAPTCHA_TESTING'] = 'True'

    form_params = {'recaptcha_response_field': 'PASSED'}
    form = RegistrationForm(form_params) # assuming only one ReCaptchaField
    form.is_valid() # True

    os.environ['RECAPTCHA_TESTING'] = 'False'
    form.is_valid() # False

Passing any other values will cause django-recaptcha to continue normal processing
and return a form error.

Check ``tests.py`` for a full example.


AJAX
~~~~~

To make Recapcha work in ajax-loaded forms:

#. import recaptcha_ajax.js on your page (not in the loaded template):

    <script type="text/javascript" src="http://www.google.com/recaptcha/api/js/recaptcha_ajax.js"></script>

#. settings.py

    CAPTCHA_AJAX = True


Credits
-------
Inspired Marco Fucci's blogpost titled `Integrating reCAPTCHA with Django <http://www.marcofucci.com/tumblelog/26/jul/2009/integrating-recaptcha-with-django>`_


``client.py`` taken from `recaptcha-client <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/recaptcha-client>`_ licenced MIT/X11 by Mike Crawford.

reCAPTCHA copyright 2012 Google.

.. |travis| image:: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/device-recaptcha.png?branch=develop
.. _travis: https://travis-ci.org/praekelt/device-recaptcha
